one of the most famous dinosaurs of all
the bulldozer of the Dinosaur World the
legend that is Triceratops nine meters
long three meters high and twice the
weight of an African elephant
Triceratops is one of the most iconic of
all our deadly defenders it came from a
family of horned dinosaurs called the
ceratopsians as a group they were the
ultimate battering rams with giant horns
positioned in front of a shield like
frill they were seriously imposing
but how did they use their
fierce-looking facial features when it
came to defense
one theory was that they charged like a
Reiner
[Music]
to put that idea to the test scientists
recently built and filmed an accurate
Triceratops skull
they use the resin that had the same
braking strength as bone and faced it
off against artificial Dino flesh so did
it really charge like a modern-day
rhinoceros
this is Triceratops versus t-rex
oh that has not gone well but it's top
speed of 15 miles an hour it was the
Triceratops that came off worse with the
whole upper jaw getting smashed to
smithereens the tests show that
Triceratops his horns were plenty strong
enough to pierce the flanks of something
as formidable as t-rex but in a charging
attack the skull simply wasn't robust
enough to take the forces of the impact
and it would shatter it's more likely
that Triceratops would have stood its
ground swung its head and gouged at its
attackers this method of attack doesn't
need a charging head of steam but the
confidence to stand your ground and
swing to do this Topsy had immense neck
muscles to wield its weapons for the
trouble with this technique is that it's
risky mess up your timing and you'll end
up as tops on toast but get it right
like a saber to the stomach and not even
the great t-rex is surviving a stab like
that which makes Triceratops the
definition of a deadly defender with
huge horns and a deadly gouging
technique second to none Triceratops was
a terrifying type